#summary Documentation, EN
#labels Featured,Phase-Requirements,Phase-Implementation

DisplayServ displays the status of your dedicated servers for TrackMania Forever and ManiaPlanet.


=1# Requirements=
 * A web server (preferably avoid free servers)
 * PHP version 5.3+
 * A dedicated server TrackMania Forever / ManiaPlanet in use


=2# Installation=
Extract the file "displayserv.zip" where you want on a web server.

==Files to include on your page:==
{{{
<link rel="stylesheet" href="ressources/styles/displayserv.css" />
<script src="includes/js/jquery.js"></script>
<script src="includes/js/displayserv.js"></script>
}}}

==Execute the script:==
{{{
<script>
    $(document).ready(function(){
        $('#displayserv').displayServ();
    });
</script>

<div id="displayserv"></div>
}}}

By default, DisplayServ use the User account to connect to the server with the default password: *User*.


=3# Options=
==Example of setting parameters:==
{{{
<script>
    $(document).ready(function(){
        $('#displayserv').displayServ({
            refresh: 15,
            color: 'red',
            links: {
               spectate: false,
               addfavourite: true
            }
        });
    });
</script>
}}}

==You can define the next parameters:==
 * config : path of the configuration file of your servers.By default : "config/servers.cfg.php"
 * includes : path of the includes’ folder. By default : includes/
 * ressources : path of the ressouces’ folder. By default : ressources/
 * timeout : Limit time to try to connect in seconds. By default : 3
 * refresh : Time before a refresh of servers info in seconds. By default : 30. Minimum 10 seconds.
 * color : Display color in hexa/rgb(a).
 * links : Links posted in overview of the server. Several possible parameters:
    * join : activate the link to access the server as a player. Value true or false, by default true.
    * spectate : activate the link to access the server as a spectator. Value true or false, by default true.
    * addfavourite : show a link to add the server to your favorites. Value true or false, by default false.